---
layout:     post
title:      gc of golang.
date:       2021-01-20 12:16:00
summary:    golang
categories: jekyll pixyll
---


## Mark Setup -STW
> When a collection starts, the first activity that must be performed is turning on the Write Barrier. write barrier: allow the collector to maintain data integrity on the heap during a colleciton since both the collector and application goroutines will be concurrently.

1. key point.
 - in order to turn the write barrier on, every application goroutine running must be stopped. This activity is usually very quick. within 10 to 30 microseconds on average.

#### e.g: 
  if one goroutine could run for an unreasonable amount of time with no opportunity to be stopped. this is the kind of code that could stall a collection from starting.
  what's worse is the other P's can't service any other goroutines while the collector waits.It's critically import that goroutine make function calls in reasonable timeframes.
  
proposal:
  this is something the language team is looking to correct in 1.14 by adding preemptive techniques to the scheduler[https://github.com/golang/go/issues/24543].
  
## Marking -Concurrent.

> once the write Barrier is turned on, the collector commences with the Marking phase. 
 1. the collector does is take 25% of the available CPU capacity for itself. the collector uses Goroutines to do the collection work and needs the same P's and M's the application Goroutines use. 
      this means for our 4 threaded Ho program, one entire P will be dedicated to collection work.
      
 2. if the collector determines that it needs to slow down allocations, it will recruit the application Goroutines to assist with the Marking work.
    the amount of time any application Goroutine will be placed in a Mark Assist is proportional to the amount of data it's adding th heap memory.
    One positive side effect of mark assist is that it helps to finish the collection faster.
    
 3. One goal of collector is to eliminate the need for mark assists. if any given colletion end up requiring a lot of mark assist, the collector can start the next garbage collection earlier. this is done in an attempt to reduce the amount of mark assist that will be necessary on the next collection,
 
## Mark Termination - STW
> Once the Marking work is done, the next phase is Mark Termination. This is when the write Barrier is turned off, various clean up tasks are performed, and the next collection goal is calculated.
 and the next collection goal is calculated. Goroutines that find themselves in a tight loop during the marking phase can also cause mark termination STW latencies to be extended.
 
 1. all the goroutines are stopped while the mark termination phase completes. the activity is usually within 60 to 90 microseconds on average. this phase could be done without a STW, the code is simpler and the added complexity is not worth the small gain,
  Once the collection is finished, every P can be used by the application Goroutine again and the application is back to full throttle.
 

## GC Percentage
> There is a configuration option in the runtime called GC Percentage, which is set to 100 by default. the value represents a ratio of much new heap memory can be allocated before the next collection has to start.


## GC Trace

> A GC trace can be generated by including the environmental variable GODEBUG with the gctrace=1 option when running any Go application. Every time a collection happens, the runtime will write the GC trace information to stderr.
  
e.g:

gc 1405 @6.068s 11%: 0.058+1.2+0.083 ms clock, 0.70+2.5/1.5/0+0.99 ms cpu, 7->11->6 MB, 10 MB goal, 12 P

// Memory

7MB         : Heap memory in-use before the Marking started
11MB        : Heap memory in-use after the Marking finished
6MB         : Heap memory marked as live after the Marking finished
10MB        : Collection goal for heap memory in-use after Marking finished

> the amount of heap memory that was marked as live after the Marking work finished was 6MB. This means the application
can increase the amount of heap memory in-use to 12MB(100% of the live heap size of 6MB) before the next collection needs to start.

You can see that the collector missed its goal by 1MB. The amount of heap memory in-use after the Marking work finished was 11MB not 10MB

> Listing 5 shows how this collection started 2ms after the start of the previous collection (6.068s vs 6.070s) even though the heap memory in-use had only reached 8MB of the 12MB that was allowed. It’s important to note, if the collector decides it’s better to start a collection earlier it will. In this case, it probably started earlier because the application is allocating heavily and the collector wanted to reduce the amount of Mark Assist latency during this collection.


As a side note. You can get more details from the GC trace by adding the gcpacertrace=1 flag. This causes the collector to print information about the internal state of the concurrent pacer.

### Pacing
> the collector has a pacing algorithm which is used to determined when a collection is to start.

### GC Traces
> 




 
